# Breakthrough Infections

Code and data to accompany "Anticipating and Interpreting Breakthrough Infections Amid Expanded Vaccine Refusal" bv Mallory J Harris, Akash Arani, Tapan Goel, Kejia Zhang, Stephen J Beckett, Nathan C Lo, Jonathan Dushoff, and Joshua S Weitz.



Analyses and figures are generated using the scripts main\_ode\_plots.R (main text figures 1, 2, and 4); assortativity\_estim.R (main text figure 3 and supplemental table and figure involving estimated assortativity); and supplemental\_figs.R (all other supplemental analyses except for the two-dose model); TwoDoseModel.ipynb (the two-dose model)



The folder ode\_runs contains MATLAB scripts and output .csv files for solving the ODE. Scripts are: model\_parameters.m (stores parameters relevant for measles and MMR), SIR\_vaccinated\_assortativity.m (differential equations for the model), Figure4.m (generates ode\_output) FigureS4.m (generates diffdisease-ode-output. Workspace .mat files and output .csv files are also included.



The school-reports folder contains school-level vaccine data for six states that provide such data publicly online (MD, MN, NC, WA, CA, CO). Files are provided as downloaded, with either all years in a single csv or each year separately as an Excel or csv file. Figure 3 may still be generated using assortativity\_estim.R using the intermediate file estim\_assort\_df.csv



Output figures and the table of trends in estimated assortativity are in the file figs.



All other data inputs and intermediate files are available in the main folder and described below in alphabetical order.

* diffdisease-ode-output.csv: output of ODE solver for varying assortativity and coverage, plus additional R0 (4 or 15) and vaccine failure rate (0.03, .2) scenarios (used by supplemental\_figs.R to generate supp-fv and supp-Iv)
* estim\_assort\_df.csv: an intermediate file from assortativity estim with the estimated assortativity for each school x year (estim\_phi) and 1000 bootstrapped estimates (resampled\_estim). This is used later in the assortativity\_estim to generate figure 3.
* lowphi-inset-ode-output.csv: output of ODE solver for low values of assortativity (phi = 0.1, .01, .001, .0001) and high coverage (used to increase resolution for inset of supp-lowphiHIT,generated by supplemental\_figs.R)
* lowphi-ode-output.csv: output of ODE solver for low values of assortativity (phi = 0.1, .01, .001, .0001) and coverage from 0 to 1 (used to make main figure for supp-lowphiHIT,generated by supplemental\_figs.R)
* ode\_out.csv: output of ODE solver for measles-consistent parameters varying assortativity and coverage. Used by main\_ode\_plots.R to make main figure 1, 2, and 4.
* recent-outbreaks.csv: table of data collected from state health department measles outbreak dashboard on December 15, 2025. Used by main\_ode\_plots.R for main figure 1.



